### Experience in  Machine learning, Linux architecture, Shell Scripts, and Development.[](#Durgesh)
* I designed and developed a closest protein prediction algorithm which finds the most similar protein for the query protein from the HPRD [Human Protein Reference Database].
A web portal is also been developed to provide algorithm's access to the world, where anyone can submit their query protein and our server will find the closest protein for them and the results are shown with proper visualization.[beta the version is available here].
Technologies used are Machine learning, Python, Linux Shell Scripts, Javascript, HTML, CSS, Locally configured Linux packages.

### Experience in Big Data Visualisation, Scraping, Data Aquisition, and Graph Databases[](#Durgesh)
* During previous year's summer vacation I have designed and developed a web portal for accessing and visualization of a relational database of medicinal plants and disease cured by them in the form of network graphs and web animation. and the related information about a plant and a disease is also portrayed in the form of graph, maps, and animations.
Curated Database of medicinal plants and disease cured by them is also prepared by me having around 5k medicinal plants.
An algorithm to find the most important medicinal plant is implemented, another algorithm which assign a weight to the nodes of the network which are basically medicinal plants for us has also been implemented, data for the algorithm is collected from the research paper, books, internet sites, thesis, and statistics.
Technologies and software that I used for that are Python, Django, Neo4j, Javascript, HTML, CSS, and WebGL

### Experience in Deep Learning & Machine Learning[](#Durgesh)
```Computer Vision```   ```Signal Processing```  ```CNN```  ```RNN```  ```Object Detection```  ```Digital Image Processing``` 

* **ECG and EEG signal Processing**<br>
  * Objective of project was filtering of signals and Classification into different classes of Epilepsy<br>
  * Denoising is done using wavelet transfromation
  * Different form of waves are extracted using butterworth filter
  * Different machine learning algorithms are tested after feature extraction from the signals
  * Finally CNN modal was build 
  * Sample code is available [here](https://github.com/durgesh123-iitr/sudo_eeg)
  * *note: Classification and remaining code will be public soon currently it is in my private repo of [primus00](https://github.com/primus00) account*
* **Openpose and Human Pose Classification**
  * objective of project was analyse students actions during examination.
  * I build a LSTM classifier on the top of results generated by OpenPose.
  * That was a tedious task because installation and configuration of OpenPose was not a cake walk.
  * I also tried to create a web based portal to generate data to train on your own specific data. 
  * On further addition a registration portal was also made with face verification functionality
  
* **Scene Text Detection** 
  * Objective of this project was to extract location of specific text in image
  * I used tensorflow model's object detection to get the specific part out 
  * I generate data using [Labelimg](https://github.com/tzutalin/labelImg) which is a tool to create annotation file for image written in python

* **OCR**
  * Objective of this project is to get knowledge about Optical character Recognition
  * I used the tensorflow implementation of [EAST: An Efficient and Accurate Scene Text Detector](https://github.com/argman/EAST) algorithm
* **EEG and RR-Interval data From AIIMS Rishikesh*
  * Objective was to tune poincare algorithms and Cosinor Plot.
  * I developed a advanced version of poincare algorithms as directed by the doctors of AIIMS and provide them with a command line python package to run it.
  * Cosinor Plot for RR interval data was implemented in matlab 
  * codes are available here [Cosinor](https://github.com/durgesh123-iitr/cosinor_matlab) and [Poincare](https://github.com/durgesh123-iitr/poincare)
  * I also worked on automatic PDF generation for data for them code is available [here](https://github.com/durgesh123-iitr/FrequencyDomain)
* **Image classification**
  * Objective was to learn about deep learning models especially CNNs
  * I successfully implemented 
* I have been learning and practicing different Algorithms and framework of Deep Learning and Machine Learning since last year.
My topics of interest in the area of Artificial intelligence are Computer Vision(Image Processing and Classification), Signal Processing(Bio-Signal and Sound Signals), and Applied Research.
Applied this for development of a web framework for monitoring of students during their online exam by taking video input using the webcam and detecting the posture of the student to make the final prediction of the state of the student. I further extended this to multi-person pose estimation using OpenPose and I used LSTM for classification of poses in streaming video.
I also implemented Object detection and Scene text Recognition with OCR using tensorflow and EAST Algorithm. I developed a script to train pre-trained object detection model on our dataset which has been manually acquired using a labelimg software and Images collect from the web.
I did work on Image Processing, which includes filtering, feature extraction, noise reduction, scaling or normalization, restoring, image enhancement, etc.
Video Processing and Gesture detection using cascade file with the help of OpenCV.

* I have Worked on Brain as well as cardiac signals which includes filtering, feature detection, and classification. Data filtering was a tedious task which requires the proper knowledge of data that is being used and different filtering methodologies like I have used Wavelet transformations, Fourier transformations and Butter Worth filters to reduce the noise content in EEG and ECG signals. Pan Tompkins Algorithm for Peak Detections in  ECG and pre-trained artifact removers for EEG artifact removal.
Worked on many datasets from UCI ML Repository and Physionet and one from the University of Bern Barcelona, I also worked patient's data acquired from AIIMS Rishikesh.
The final step of it is the classification of signals to different categories I have tried different prediction and clustering algorithms and fine-tuned them give better results.

## Durgesh
